We're now going to
cover the common factory
methods that are defined in
the Java Streams framework.
There's several common
ways to obtain a stream.
One of the most common
ways is to obtain it
from a Java collection.
As you can see here,
we create ourselves
a list of strings based
on the array of strings
do, re, mi as we've been doing
with the simple lab search
stream program.
And then we can go ahead and
call the stream factory method,
which is defined on collection.
And that will go ahead and
return a sequential stream
that contains all the elements
in that particular collection.
This is the approach,
of course, that we
use in this simple
search string program
because we're doing
sequential streams.
Conversely, we could also call
the parallel stream factory
method, which looks almost
identical and behaves very
similarly if you look at how
it's implemented compared
to the stream method.
But under the
hood, of course, it
creates a parallel stream,
not a sequential stream.
Interestingly enough, you can
actually start by creating
a sequential stream by
using the .stream call.
And then before you reach
the terminal operation,
you can convert from sequential
to parallel stream by using
the .parallel method.
And this call will,
essentially, then
ensure that parallel
streams processing
is going to be performed on
this stream when the terminal
operation is hit.
Also interestingly,
you could then
call that sequential again.
There's another method-- there's
a parallel in .sequential.
And so you can basically
go back and forth
between these different calls.
And whichever one is
the last one that's
called before the
terminal operation is hit
is the one that wins.
It's kind of unusual to
do more than one call,
however, because it's simply
confusing and has no point.
But we'll see later how we
can use this parallel method
in order to
conditionally convert
a stream to a parallel
stream, which turns out
to be useful for certain kinds
of testing and benchmarking
purposes.
Another way of being
able to create a stream
is by taking an array, and
using the arrays class,
and calling a factory
method on that.
So let's assume that we
have an array of strings
with a, b, c, d, e, or whatever.
Then one way to make
a stream from this
is to say arrays.stream where
arrays is a utility class that
has a bunch of factory
methods, one of which
is a method that converts
an array to a string.
And once we've done this, once
we have a stream of strings,
then we can do some
operations on it.
As you can see here, we have
a couple of different options.
One approach is to
use a lamda expression
with the forEach method so we
could go ahead and print out
each element s using the
println method on system.out.
Alternatively, we could
use a factory method--
sorry, a method reference
in order to do this.
So we could use a
method reference
to print out each element step.
We could also use a
static factory method.
So once again, let's assume
we have our array of strings.
And then we can say stream.of
and use the ofFactory method
defined on the stream
interface in order
to convert the
array into a string.
And as we saw before,
we could print it
out either using a lambda
expression or a method
reference to print the
elements of the stream out.
Couple of different ways to go.
There are yet other interesting
static factor methods
that are also defined
on the stream interface.
One of the ones that I
find quite fascinating
is the iterate method.
What's interesting about
this particular method
is you can actually generate
an infinite stream this way
whereas the approaches
we've seen up here
using things like
an array or a list,
obviously those are
bounded data structures.
You don't have an unbounded
array in this context.
But with iterate,
in contrast, you
can make an arbitrary
sized unbounded stream.
So let's take a look and
see how we can use iterate.
This particular example
will generate and print
the first 100 Fibonacci numbers
in the Fibonacci sequence.
I'm sure you're familiar
with the Fibonacci sequence.
You can take a look on
the web to see what it is
if you don't know what it is.
But it's basically
a sequence that's
converted by adding the two
previous numbers together
repeatedly.
So what we do here is we start
by getting something called
the seed, which is the
initial element in the stream
that we're defining.
And here our seed is
going to be an array
of two big integers,
both of which
start out with a value of one.
So that's the initial value.
And then what we have is we have
basically a generator lambda.
And this is a
lambda function that
will be applied indefinitely
to the previous element
in this stream to
produce a new element.
And you can see
what we do here is
we take the Fibonacci array that
came in as the first element.
And then we make ourselves
a new big integer array.
And we're going to put the
second element of that input
array as the first
element in the new array.
And then we're going to
add the second element
to the first element.
And that becomes the second
element in the array.
So that's basically
just defining
the Fibonacci sequence.
So we go ahead and
generate all those results.
That creates an infinite stream.
And then what we're
going to do is
we're going to map each of
those two element arrays
into a single
stream that contains
just the first element.
So that will end
up basically being
the Fibonacci sequence with the
first element being referenced
here.
And there'll be a stream
of those elements.
Now we could let
this run forever
but that would take a long time.
It's obviously an
infinite sequence,
although big integers will go
and go and go till we run out
of memory on the machine.
But more realistically,
what we're going to do here
is we're going to limit the
stream to just 100 elements.
So limit is what's called a
short circuiting intermediate
operation.
And it says after you've
seen 100 of these things,
the condition is done.
The stream is over.
Let's stop.
So we're going to end up with
a stream of the first 100
Fibonacci elements.
And then we will go ahead and
have the terminal operation
which, as you
undoubtedly recall,
will trigger all the
intermediate operation
processing.
And in this case, it will print
out the first 100 Fibonacci
numbers.
As a good rule of thumb,
try not to use iterate
in a parallel stream.
It turns out that iterates
is very inefficient
when used with a parallel stream
for a whole bunch of reasons
that we don't have time
to go into at the moment.
But we'll talk more about
this when we discuss parallel
streams in later weeks.